Edited timetable docs (#38505)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/apache-airflow/authoring-and-scheduling/timetable.rst

Timetables
==========

> For DAGs with time-based schedules (as opposed to event-driven), the DAGs internal "timetable"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a DAG with a time-based schedule (as opposed to event-driven), the DAG's internal "timetable"
```

drives scheduling.  The timetable also determines the data interval and the logical date of
each run created for the DAG.

DAGs scheduled with a cron expression or ``timedelta`` object are
internally converted to always use a timetable.

If a cron expression or ``timedelta`` is sufficient for your use case, you don't need
to worry about writing a custom timetable because Airflow has default timetables that handle those cases.
But for more complicated scheduling requirements,
you can create your own timetable class and pass that to the DAG's ``schedule`` argument.

Some examples of when custom timetable implementations are useful:

> * Data intervals with "holes" between intervals instead of a continuous interval, as both the cron

Reviewer 2: I think introducing the interval here might be confusing.

Reviewer 2: maybe link to an explanation of data_interval conceptually? If such a doc exists

- The time when a DAG run is triggered by `CronTriggerTimetable`_ is more similar to how people
expect cron to behave compared to `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ when ``catchup`` is ``False``.

Whether taking care of *Data Interval*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`CronTriggerTimetable`_ *does not* include *data interval*. This means that the value of ``data_interval_start`` and
``data_interval_end`` (and the legacy ``execution_date``) are the same; the time when a DAG run is triggered.

However, `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ *does* include *data interval*. This means the value of
``data_interval_start`` and ``data_interval_end`` (and legacy ``execution_date``) are different. ``data_interval_start`` is the time when a
DAG run is triggered and ``data_interval_end`` is the end of the interval.

The time when a DAG run is triggered
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

There is no difference between `CronTriggerTimetable`_ and `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ when ``catchup`` is ``True``. :ref:`dag-catchup` tells you how DAG runs are
triggered when ``catchup`` is ``True``.

When ``catchup`` is ``False``, there is difference in how a new DAG run is triggered.

> `CronTriggerTimetable`_ triggers a new DAG run *after* the current time, while `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ triggers a DAG run *before* the current time, assuming

Reviewer 2: This feels confusing. Both timetables will kick off runs at the same time, given the same cron string, but the _run_id_ for those runs will be as you describe here. I think we should explicitly call out that the `CronDataIntervalTimetable`'s run_id timestamp does NOT match the time it actually started running.

Differences between the two cron timetables
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

> Airflow has two timetables `CronTriggerTimetable`_ and `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ that accept a cron expression.
> However, there are differences between the two:
> - `CronTriggerTimetable`_ does not address *Data Interval*, while `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ does.
> - The time when a DAG run is triggered by `CronTriggerTimetable`_ is more similar to how people
> expect cron to behave compared to `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ when ``catchup`` is ``False``.

Author: ```suggestion
Airflow has two timetables `CronTriggerTimetable`_ and `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ that accept a cron expression.
However, there are differences between the two:
- `CronTriggerTimetable`_ does not address *Data Interval*, while `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ does.
- The timestamp in the ``run_id``, the ``logical_date`` for `CronTriggerTimetable`_ and `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_  are defined differently based on how they handle the data interval.
```

Whether taking care of *Data Interval*
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

`CronTriggerTimetable`_ *does not* include *data interval*. This means that the value of ``data_interval_start`` and
``data_interval_end`` (and the legacy ``execution_date``) are the same; the time when a DAG run is triggered.

However, `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ *does* include *data interval*. This means the value of
``data_interval_start`` and ``data_interval_end`` (and legacy ``execution_date``) are different. ``data_interval_start`` is the time when a
DAG run is triggered and ``data_interval_end`` is the end of the interval.

The time when a DAG run is triggered
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> There is no difference between `CronTriggerTimetable`_ and `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ when ``catchup`` is ``True``. :ref:`dag-catchup` tells you how DAG runs are

Reviewer 2: I think this is actually not true. All the points listed in catchup=False sections are applicable when catchup=False too.

> triggered when ``catchup`` is ``True``.

Author: Add new subsection - catchup = false
When you first make a brand new dag, if you set the start date in the past and catchup=true, then it'll run all the DAGs that had been previously.
If you pause a dag, this is when catchup matters. Because if your DAG is paused for a month, you can specify whether or not the DAG needs to run for all the days that had been missed.

> When ``catchup`` is ``False``, there is difference in how a new DAG run is triggered.

Author: ```suggestion
```

> `CronTriggerTimetable`_ and `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ trigger DAG runs at the same time. However, the timestamp for the ``run_id`` is different for each.

Author: ```suggestion
`CronTriggerTimetable`_ and `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ trigger DAG runs at the same time. However, the timestamp for the ``run_id`` (``logical_date``) is different for each.
```

> `CronTriggerTimetable`_ and `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ trigger DAG runs at the same time, because they were given the same CRON string. However, the timestamp for the ``run_id`` is different for each.

Author: @collinmcnulty - I think I'm following your feedback and I added some details about the run_id timestamp to the bullet points. is this correct now?

Reviewer 2: This is good. I would remove "because they were"

When ``catchup`` is ``False``, there is difference in how a new DAG run is triggered.

`CronTriggerTimetable`_ and `CronDataIntervalTimetable`_ trigger DAG runs at the same time. However, the timestamp for the ``run_id`` is different for each.

> - `CronTriggerTimetable`_ has a ``run_id`` timestamp showing when DAG run started.

Reviewer 2: One more nit of clarification. DAG Runs can be delayed but those delays don't change the run_id.
```suggestion
- `CronTriggerTimetable`_ has a ``run_id`` timestamp showing when DAG run is able to start.
```
